.. _azure-plans:

========================
Azure subscription plans
========================

When signing up for the CrateDB Cloud offer on Microsoft Azure Marketplace, you
have a choice of three different plans. Each of these plans is preconfigured
for different use cases, depending on how large your product needs are. By
presenting these plans in terms of ready configurations of database storage,
memory, and computation capacity, the user is spared the complexity of finding
exact required hardware combinations themselves.

At the same time, the plans also offer flexibility, since your use case may
change. Not only is it possible to switch plans, but within a given plan you
can scale the required capacity for a cluster up or down. In order to make it
transparent and yet easy to use, this scaling is measured in terms of Database
Transaction Units (DTUs).

This reference gives a brief description of each plan and subsequently explains
the meaning and usage of DTUs for scaling and pricing within each plan. In this
way, making a suitable and effective choice of plan for CrateDB Cloud's Azure
offer will become straightforward.

.. rubric:: Table of contents

.. contents::
   :local:


.. _azure-plans-overview:

The CrateDB Cloud plans on Azure Marketplace
============================================

Currently, CrateDB Cloud's offer on Azure Marketplace provides three different
plans: **Development**, **General Purpose Basic** and **General Purpose Pro**.

* The **Development** plan is aimed at users who want to try out what CrateDB
  Cloud has to offer. It offers modest but robust storage, memory, and
  computation capacity. Although intended for setting up trial clusters to
  evaluate the product, it offers full flexibility: the capacity can be scaled
  along three scale units. Per scale unit, one DTU is added (or subtracted).

.. NOTE::
    Note that the Development plan is not covered by 24/7 support.

* The **General Purpose Basic** plan suits all but very large use cases.
  It offers the intermediate range of storage, memory, and computation
  capacity. This plan also can currently be scaled between three scale units,
  each adding (or subtracting) one DTU.
* Finally, the **General Purpose Pro** plan is intended for users with very
  large capacity needs. This plan offers very significant storage, memory, and
  computation capacity, offering up to four times the ingestion and query
  capacity of the General Purpose Basic plan and up to an order of magnitude
  greater storage. The General Purpose Pro plan can also currently be scaled
  between three scale units, each adding (or subtracting) one DTU.


.. _azure-plans-dtus:

Explaining DTUs for scaling and billing
=======================================

What are DTUs and how do they work? As mentioned above, to make finding the
right combination of hardware capacity more tractable and accessible, CrateDB
Cloud's offer on Azure uses DTUs. These DTUs have essentially two purposes:
they allow the user to choose the right combination of plan and scale to find
the capacity they need, and they provide clarity for the purposes of pricing.
In order to keep things simple, scaling in each plan is currently set up so
that one scale unit = one DTU, and billing is set up so that Crate.io bills
only for DTUs/hour actually used.

.. NOTE::
    Note, however, that scale units do not necessarily *start* at 1 DTU; for
    example the **Development** plan starts at 3 DTUs and then scales up to 5
    DTUs.

Let's break this down further to clarify what each of these statements mean.

As seen above, CrateDB Cloud's Azure offer is divided into three plans. Each
plan has a starting scale (scale unit 1), which can be scaled up to scale unit
2 or 3. Because the hardware capacity in each plan is different, a scale unit
in the **Development** plan is of a different size (in terms of storage,
memory, and computation) than a scale unit in the **General Purpose Pro** plan.
But scaling within each plan (i.e., between the minimum capacity for that plan
and the maximum capacity for that plan) is made easy by the division into scale
units, each of which corresponds to one DTU.

An overview showing the range in terms of capacity of each plan, within which
the scaling of that plan operates, can be found on the `Azure offer page`_.
Here one also finds the price per DTU per hour.

To summarize, the DTU approach to scaling means that although the offered plans
differ considerably in capacity both between each other and per scale unit
within each plan, the DTU system allows these different magnitudes to be
compared easily by the user.

The same principle applies to the pricing. If you scale within a plan, you will
readily know how much capacity you are getting and also how much you will pay
per hour. This is because you know the capacity of the plan, the fact that one
scale unit = one DTU, and the price per DTU/hour for that plan. The pricing in
DTU/hours used is determined for each scale unit in a plan, so that a given
number of scale units = a given number of DTUs, which for a given plan produces
a given price. This provides both flexibility and transparency. The pricing can
also be estimated through the `pricing calculator`_.

The precise calculations of required hardware capacity, actual usage of that
hardware, and a corresponding cost are all handled by Crate.io. The user only
needs to consider a plan, a scale within that plan, and the price in DTU/hour
that corresponds to it.


.. _azure-plans-example:

A practical example
===================

Say you have a use case where you expect to need approximately 6000 ingests per
second and want corresponding capacity in storage, without having to worry
about the precise storage size. Also, you want this to be easy to set up and
clearly priced and billed.

CrateDB Cloud's Azure offer provides a straightforward approach to such a use
case. Simply compare the plans on offer. You will quickly identify that the
desired capacity falls within the **General Purpose Pro** plan, which begins at
2000 ingests/sec. and scales in 2000 ingests/sec. units. You therefore
subscribe to this plan and scale it up 2 times, from 2000 to 6000 ingests/sec.

Now you have a ready **General Purpose Pro** plan for your cluster at scale
unit 3. Since each scale unit is currently simply one DTU, and the **General**
**Purpose Pro** plan begins at 1 DTU, you will directly know that your total
cost is 3 DTU/hour of that plan. Of course, as always, only actual usage is
billed.

It is easy to try out different other estimations and their corresponding plans
and prices using the `price calculator on the CrateDB Cloud website`_.


.. _azure-plans-notes:

Cautionary notes
================

For clarity and to prevent confusion, we add here a few notes of caution:

* The correspondence between one scaling unit and one DTU is provisional and
  may change in the future.
* Remember that not all plans, currently or in the future, necessarily start at
  1 DTU. The **Development** plan currently starts at 3 DTU of that plan. When
  referring to the pricing per DTU/hour on the Azure offer, keep this in mind.
  This means the price for 1 DTU/hour listed on the Azure offer is not
  necessarily the minimum price for a given plan, even when one does not scale
  further upwards, since one may start at several DTUs even without scaling
  further.
* New plans will be offered in the future with different capacity ranges that
  may suit your use case. Our price calculator and this Reference will then be
  updated accordingly. Plan terms and prices are subject to change.


.. _Azure offer page: https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/crate.cratedbcloud?tab=PlansAndPrice
.. _pricing calculator: https://crate.io/products/cratedb-cloud/#cloud-calculator
.. _price calculator on the CrateDB Cloud website: https://crate.io/products/cratedb-cloud/#cloud-calculator
